The story revolves Eren Yeager, a boy who lives in the town of Shiganshina, located on the outermost of three circular walls protecting humanity from Titans. In the year 845, the wall is breached by two new types of Titans, named the Colossus Titan and the Armored Titan. During the incident, Eren's mother is eaten by a Titan while Eren escapes. He swears revenge on all Titans and enlists in the military along with his childhood friends, Mikasa Ackerman and Armin Arlert. He intends to join the Survey Corps, the expeditionary force that seeks to eradicate the Titans from the walls.

Five years after Shiganshina's fall, Trost is attacked once more by the Colossal Titan. The Survey Corps and regs rush to defend the city from rampaging Titans, and Eren learns that he has the mysterious ability to turn himself into a sentient Titan. This draws the attention of the Survey Corps, who intends to use his newfound power to reclaim Wall Maria. After a successful test run where Eren gains a semblance of control over his Titan form and fixes Wall Rose, the Military Police and government all hope at taking ownership over Eren and using his powers for their good. Eren is handed over to Captain Levi and Hange Zoe of the Special Operations Squad in the Survey Corps, where they test his limits and loyalty. Eren realizes that that he has to give himself pain and have a clear directive if he is to use his Titan form properly. Survey Corps commander Erwin Smith leads their troops into a daring expedition into the forest between the walls, where they encounter a sentient Female Titan killing their numbers. Levi's squad is killed in the ensuing battle, and Eren fails to use his Titan form properly in his rage. After regrouping and distancing themselves further from the Military Police's corruption, Eren and his companions deduce that their fellow military reg Annie Leonhart is the Female Titan. Eren and Annie fight, destroying property and killing many townsfolk before Annie crystallizes herself. Eren is jailed, being deemed too unstable but Levi and Erwin secure his protection.
